[Music]
the subject changes again
70,000 years ago the level of the waters
the separation between Africa and
arabia decreased to 13 km
[Music]
The red sea is narrow and shallow
enough to allow this
small group cross it and leave africa
belong to a human species
later known as homo sapiens
[Music]
they have managed to cross
Scientists believe that everyone
beyond Africa was populated by the
descendants of these few hundred of
individuals
with the passage of time our
ancestors reproduce and spread
for india and from there the rest of asia
and europe
but while humans are heading to
north a gigantic ice barrier
travel south
[Music]
europe 40 thousand years ago
our ancestors homo sapiens
they are reaching more parts of the world
where they find that the planet is
changing rapidly is cooling
we should be in the middle of summer but
the plants are frozen and the rivers
frozen
[Music]
the natural numbers in the orbit
Earth 's CO2 levels and
streams of hot water from the planet
conspire to make the temperature
from the earth descend
the earth and its inhabitants enter into a
ice age
glaciers as tall as skyscrapers
invade the northern hemisphere at a pace of
30 centimeters a day slow but
inexorable reconfigure the landscape to
as now giving big
depressions
the planet will never look the same
that before
now about 20,000 years ago the
glaciation stops
much of the northern hemisphere is
cover of ice mantles up to 2
kilometers and a half thick with
trillions of liters of water converted
on ice the sea level drops
[Music]
20 thousand years ago a strip of land
emerges in the sea that separates Siberia and
Alaska
[Music]
It is a bridge between two great
continents
a door that humans open
from Asia to a new world
America
it is the last great colonized continent
the last great human migration
at some point down there it
find the first Americans
[Music]
at that time 14,000 years ago the
changes caused glaciation
invest
When the ice retreats, they show a
very different northern hemisphere
the huge depressions created by the
glaciers fill with water and they
they turn into the great lakes of
north america
[Music]
six thousand years ago the ice returns to
the poles to the Arctic to the Antarctic
[Music]
[Applause]